Earthquake, google, and more [2008]
---
    
> Categories: Web, 旧文, 时事, 语义网  
> Time: 2011-12-04  
> Original url: <http://baojie.org/blog/2011/12/04/earthquake-google-and-more/>
    
注：这篇文章讲了Web在救灾中的一些作用，以及语义网对救灾的可能作用。我现在依然坚信这个可能性，并在今后的职业生涯中会为此努力。本文后来部分发表为 James A. Hendler. & Jie Bao (2008). Why It Matters. IEEE Intelligent Systems, 23(4): 2-3http://tw.rpi.edu/wiki/Blog:Baojie/Item-47http://tw.rpi.edu/weblog/2008/05/22/earthquake-google-and-more/====================Below is an email I sent to the group today.———————-Dear TW friends     You must have already known the huge earthquake occurred on May 12 in Sichuan, China. It has caused enormous loss of lives: more than 50,000 confirmed death, around 30,000 missing, plus about 300,000 people injured as of today. The whole nation, as well as Chinese all over the world including me, are in deep sorrow for the tragedy.For the memorial of the earthquake victims, on May 19 14:28pm (Beijing Time), sharply one week after the earthquake, Chinese public held a moment of silence. People stood silent for three minutes while air defense, police and fire sirens, and the horns of vehicles, vessels and trains sounded.Google China released a traffic curve for the three minutes [1]. At the deepest point, it dropped to 10% of the normal traffic. At the time, millions of people stopped their work on computers, stood up and lowered their heads to observe. The curve clearly conveys a message of national unity of the Chinese people in a time of calamity. I’m pride to be a part of the people.Web plays an important role in the earthquake relief this time. Messages and information are exchanged on the web much faster than traditional ways in helping the rescue work. For example, when a girl heard that army helicopters couldn’t find a landing site around her home town, she immediately posted a good location on the internet, and it was replicated thousands time across many sites in just a few hours, until it reaches the army command. For another example, when all communication avenues were cut off from the outside world, the first message from the isolated area was from the website [2] of the local government, which was revived by backup power and link; due to reports from the website, it was decided to use airdrop instead of land rescue for some area, otherwise it will be too late.This can still be improved. With semantic web, such information can be propagated, instead of by human forwarding, by software agents in just seconds, to the handheld device of the pilot of helicopter. In earthquake relief, every second saved in knowledge aggregation and propagation means more hope for lives. I hope this dream of tetherless world can become true as early as possible.Thank you for reading this.Jie[1] http://googlechinablog.com/2008/05/blog-post_22.html [2] http://www.abazhou.gov.cn{{BlogInfo |page=Blog:Baojie |title=Earthquake, google, and more |visitor=User:Baojie |date=2008/05/22 |content=http://tw.rpi.edu/weblog/2008/05/22/earthquake-google-and-more/ |tag=Jie’s_SW_Blog }}     
    