Captcha, Turing Test, and Semantic Web [2008]
---
    
> Categories: 语义网  
> Time: 2011-11-24  
> Original url: <http://baojie.org/blog/2011/11/24/captcha-turing-test-and-semantic-web-2008/>
    
摘要：这篇主要讲语义网也许可以帮助机器通过某种图灵测试，反而使很多人不能通过。http://tw.rpi.edu/wiki/Blog:Baojie/Item-67,http://tw.rpi.edu/weblog/2008/08/06/captcha-turing-test-and-semantic-web/2008-08-06On the web nobody knows you are a dog, …… or a human. That’s why there are programs on the web to identify one as a human (from bots or dog or cats or……). Most popular ones are captcha. They are based on a simple assumption: no OCR agent so far can be as smart as a human is. To me, it looks like a super-simplified Turing test: an AI program has “real” intelligence as a human has, if being asked by the same question, another human can’t tell who is AI and who is human.[P.S. August 6th, 2008 at 03:23 Oops. the “T” in “captcha” really means “Turing”. I have been a fool for finding a new continent.]     I can’t help imagining that one day, when OCR agents get smart enough to pass the captcha test (I strongly believe that day is not far away), what test we will use to identify a human on web. Math? That will be easy for a good program. Scrabble? maybe, but not that secure. Ask for a Shakespeare’s sonne? Or the end year of world war II? That looks more likely to succeed. But…There are two issues.First, an agent may have access to a knowledge base. With projects like Dbpedia, human knowledge has been KBized in a speed never seen before in history. A query as “the end year of world war II” may be answered by a semantic web agent fairly quickly. I can imagine that someday we will have to design increasingly hard questions (like arts) to identify a human and fight spamming.The other issue is that a human may have NO access to a knowledge base. Many, many people in the world does not know “the end year of world war II”, even if they may be knowledgeable in other things. They may not even know where to find such a knowledge. Also, they can get bored when been consistently asked such captcha questions and quit — technically, that means they failed the test thus are not “human”. When captcha becomes increasingly hard (like arts), more people may fail for one reason or another (including boredness). That will also lead to the failure of the identification system.Will semantic web help spamming by designing smart agents?  Maybe, let’s wait and see.Jie Bao    
    