用Datapress做数据可视化[2010]
---
    
> Categories: 旧文, 语义网  
> Time: 2012-01-04  
> Original url: <http://baojie.org/blog/2012/01/04/visualizing-data-using-datapress/>
    
原文写于2010-11-01.http://tw.rpi.edu/weblog/2010/11/01/visualizing-data-using-datapress/Visualizing Data using DatapressI attended a seminar at MIT last Friday (for this year, I’m a part-time member of the DIG group there). Edward Benson gave an impressive demo on Datapress, an extension of WordPress that can enable non-geeks to import and visualize data in their blogs.Since our TW blog is based on WordPress, I installed the extension and began to try. The installation was surprisingly smooth, just a few clicks and it’s done in 30 seconds!The first thing I want to try is to visualize the ISWC 2010 dataset I recently built. Since Datapress does not yet support importing from RDF, I created a spreadsheet using a SPARQL query in TopBraid Composer:SELECT distinct ?l ?lat ?long WHERE { ?s swc:isSubEventOf iswc2010:research-track . ?s swc:isSuperEventOf ?p . ?p swc:hasRelatedDocument ?d . ?d foaf:maker ?m. ?m swrc:affiliation ?o. ?o rdfs:label ?l . ?o foaf:based_near ?b . ?b geo:lat ?lat. ?b geo:long ?long . }     There are some minor format requirements (I didn’t get it right in the first try -Ted helped me to identify the problem) * the first line of the spreadsheet should be headers, and the “key” line should have “{{label}}” * To show on a map, coordinates should be shown as Lat,Lng. Hence, I need to combine the last two columns into one, separated with a comma.The next step is to upload it to Google Docs, and share it as a public document (can be viewed here)Then, I can go back to the blog post that I’m writing, click a button on Datapress toolbar in the editing interface, add the data by giving it the URL to the Google Docs spreadsheet, and select Map visualization. The process is very user friendly.You can add multiple visualizations to one post. This is a very handy way to generate visualization using Exhibit. Actually, I have thought about visualizing ISWC data using Exhibit, but didn’t get time (or too lazy) to program. Datapress saved me.Ted will give the presentation about Datapress at ISWC next week. Don’t miss it if you will also be at Shanghai!(The map shows locations of research track authors at ISWC 2010.) {{Exhibit}} {{Footnotes}}请去原链接看动态可视化效果（目前“语义噪声”没有加Datapress插件）     
    