没人会坐下来建元数据[2008]
---
    
> Categories: 思路, 旧文, 语义网  
> Time: 2012-01-03
    
[originally posted on 2008-10-28, http://tw.rpi.edu/weblog/2008/10/28/why-bother/]Why Bother…From Talis: “Jim Hendler at the INSEMTIVE 2008 Workshop”“that people will (and do) create metadata when there are obvious and immediate benefits in them doing so. No-one really consciously sits down to share or create metadata: they sit down to do a specific task and metadata drops out as a side-effect.”I can not agree any more. I have tried to tag all my blogs once upon a time, after a few weeks, I found myself bored because there is no clear, immediate benefits for doing so. I would only tag things that I have to, like to tell my friends a list of posts of the same topic.The only tagging system that is consistently successful upon me is the gmail labeling: I organize mails related to the same task (like writing a paper) on daily basis, because it is very useful, and immediately useful. Even though, I only label a tiny fragment of all my emails.I have seen too many people having their (PC) desktops full of files and being too lazy to organize them – myself is one of them. Every year I have to spare a day or two to reorganize my harddisk, and dig out the hidden treasures of my “Downloads” folder. I believe for semantic web to be successful, creating an ontology should be at least as easy as and as useful as organizing files on a harddisk.In fact, people are creating metadata or even ontology everyday: every email sorting, every contact on the cell phone, every folder creating, every calender item, every wiki post, … We just need to make them explicit, and most of all, without bothering the user to click even one more button.Jie BaoP.S. 2012-01-03 今天回来看，再次同意得不能再同意了！要实现一个实用的系统，要为用户做减法，而不是要求他提供元数据。     
    